The reason that you know there's
something to do and you're not doing it
is not going to be easy to hear, but
here it is. You don't want to do it. Of
course, there's a part of you that wants
to do it. There's a part of yourself
telling yourself you should do it. But
there's also a part of you that doesn't
want to do it. And so that
procrastination that you're experiencing
has wisdom. And if you listen to that
wisdom, it can change everything if and
only if it's the right thing to do.
Unfortunately, what's probably happening
for you right now is that you are just
bullying yourself. You're telling
yourself, "Do this thing," and then
you're not doing it. Or you're telling
you're saying, "Yeah, I should do this
thing." And then you're not doing it.
Neurologically, the way that this works
is there's not alignment. Meaning that
your prefrontal cortex or that logical
part of your brain, the emotional part
of your brain, and the nervous system
part of your brain aren't all in
alignment with doing the thing. Only one
of them is in alignment. And it's
telling you, "You should do it. you
should do it. You should do it. But it
doesn't mean you're going to do it. And
until you get that alignment, until you
actually figure out how to make this
emotionally something that you want to
do, intellectually something that you
want to do, and something that your
nervous system wants, your chances of
doing it are far less.
Typically, there's three reasons why
you're not in alignment and why you're
not doing the thing that you think you
should be doing. The first one is that
it's not the right time. you recognize a
pattern that your logical brain can't
see and you realize, oh, this shouldn't
be done right now. The second reason is
because the way that you're doing it or
the way you're thinking about doing it
isn't going to be a good way. It's not
effective. It's not a way that you want
to do it and you haven't considered
that. You're only thinking about doing
it instead of how you want to do it. And
the last one is because you have an
emotional experience that you're trying
to avoid. So, you're telling yourself to
do something that feels like crap.
And so to figure out how to make it feel
great or to figure out how to fall in
love with the emotion that you're trying
to avoid will immediately unlock it. And
the thing about all three of these
things, whether it's timing or whether
it's an emotional avoidance or whether
it's the way that you're doing it, is if
you actually solve those problems, how
you're going to do the thing is going to
be far more effective than if you just
force yourself to do it. So the best way
to share about the timing is a personal
story. I was introduced to a pretty
famous CEO and he wanted to work with me
and I wasn't saying yes even though my
mind was like, "Yeah, this is a great
opportunity. This is something you
should do." But I knew enough at that
point to really listen when my intuition
was talking. And though I couldn't
describe what made it, I just knew that
it wasn't right. It wasn't the right
timing. Couple years later, this person
had a big fallout. It was a big failure.
It was a public failure. And I
immediately reached out because I knew
at that point there was going to be
enough humility where that person knew
that they could be wrong that they
didn't see everything and therefore the
work that I was going to do with them
was going to be more meaningful to me
and more effective for them. And so
that's when we started working together
and it was so much more rewarding than
it would have been otherwise.
But my brain couldn't see it because the
left side of the brain, the way it works
is that it can describe stuff, but the
right side, it doesn't describe things.
You get it on an intuitive hit. You kind
of know it, but you can't explain why
you know it. And if you look for a
rational explanation, then you're going
to actually forego some of the intuition
that's actually happening in the right
side of your brain. And so often times
it's really important if you're
procrastinating to just wonder, is this
the right time? Is this the thing to do?
to really feel in and something in you
will know, oh, there's something at play
that's asking me to wait and I can be
patient with that. So, the second reason
that you might be procrastinating, which
has a lot of wisdom in it, is that the
way that you're going about the thing
might really suck. And so, there was
this person I was coaching at one point
and what we found out was that all the
procrastination was that he was trying
to do everything perfectly. And as it
turns out, doing something perfectly is
bad on so many levels. First is nobody
wants to do it. Oh, I'm trying to make
it perfect and you can't make it perfect
and so it's just really always sucks to
do the thing because I'm trying to make
it perfect and it's not perfect. Uh-uh.
That also doing something perfectly is a
lot less effective because you have to
do it right the first time instead of
iterate over and over and over again and
be able to mess it up. And so we know
that the best products are ones that
have versions 1.2.3.4
for because they're constantly being
iterated on, constantly improving. And
as soon as they saw, oh, instead of
trying to get it perfect, my job is to
enjoy the process.
Boom, they started working on it right
away. And they iterated and they made
really a great product. But that
wouldn't have happened if they forced
themselves to do it and they stayed in
the perfectionism. Instead, they
listened to the wisdom of their
procrastination and they said, "Oh,
okay. there must be something in the way
that I'm doing it that's not appealing
and they started to change the way that
they were doing it and got a much better
product because of it. Now the third
thing that your procrastination might be
telling you is that you're avoiding
something emotionally. So I was working
with this very cool technologist and she
has done some amazing things in space.
She was offered a job that was like a
really big job with a really big title
and a really big salary and she said no
to it. She somewhat regretted it and we
started to talk about what had happened
like why she would say no to this huge
opportunity and what she found out was
that she said no because she didn't want
to take the responsibility of a
potentially very big fail. So by keeping
under the radar it wasn't going to be
her that was held responsible. What we
started to realize was there was just an
emotion there that she was trying to
avoid.
That feeling of failure, that feeling of
I'm not good enough. And so what we
started to do is we saw that that
feeling of failure was preventing her
from doing a lot of things. Speaking her
mind in meetings or advocating for the
thing that she knew was the right thing
to do. And so we started to work on that
and we started to visualize the failures
over and over and over again. Feel all
the emotions that could happen in the
failures and then visualize the success
and then feel all the emotions in the
success. And she did that for I don't
know maybe it was like three or four
weeks and that fear of failure went
away. And it was really actually a kind
of a cool thing because if she would
have had a huge job and the fear of
failure, she was far less likely to
succeed than if she had that huge job
and she was totally okay to feel that
failure, to confront that failure so she
could speak her mind, so she could do
the things that she needed to do in the
meetings to be successful. And so once
again that procrastination held this
wisdom. So in all the cases the
procrastination is giving you some
wisdom but you're not listening to it.
And the question is what makes you not
listen to it? And it's because part of
you is telling yourself you should do
it. You've got to do it. You have to do
it. Why haven't you done it? It's being
abusive. And so you get stuck in this
loop and you're going back and forth
between this bully voice of you have to,
you need to. Why aren't you? and this
kind of passive aggressive, yeah, yeah,
I really should do that. You know,
off. I'm not going to do that
over and over and over and over again.
And the reason that this stays this way
is because you're not actually listening
to yourself. If you try to bully
yourself, you're going to hit
resistance. Just like if I try to bully
anybody, there's going to be a certain
amount of resistance in the system.
Instead, if I deeply listen to the
wisdom of the procrastination
and it feels heard, then movement's
going to happen.
So, when you start really getting
interested in figuring out what your
procrastination has to say, there's a
couple tools that come in handy. The
first one is you really want some
wonder, right? You do not want to come
at the problem in the same way that you
created the problem. You want a
different set of thoughts to solve the
problem than the thoughts that created
the problem. And so the best way to do
that is to use wonder. Is to really ask
questions that you wouldn't ask
otherwise. And a great way to do that is
just go to our free online workshop on
wonder. You can find it here or in the
link below.